### CHAPTER each-is-the-same, SPEED 1.0, VOICE shimmer, DELAY 1.7, FILLER 0.0, MODEL tts-1

The world is a magical place. ... I often thought that science is what
dispels magic. And that's true: Science and truth and fact are all
good. ... Understanding is good and pure. ... But I am still thankful
that science can wow and astonish and amaze scientists.

Our world -- the reality we only know -- is the definition of
"amazing"! We have physics! We have life! We learn how things work and
there is beauty in the process of our universe.

We are immersed in a reality that we cannot adequately appreciate.


### CHAPTER, SPEED 1.0, VOICE shimmer, DELAY 1.7, FILLER 0.0, MODEL tts-1


One of my childhood stories from Christianity is the story of the
birth of Christ. Now uh. ... The immaculate conception is a common
first story that many unwed girls jump to. ... "I can't be pregnant."
... "I did not have sex."

Mary was not the first or LAST to make those claims! It is not a
miraculous story. But it is ... a story.

[Pause]

In that story, we are thankful that Joseph suddenly appears and he and
Mary run off from all they know with little prompting to marry and
raise a child.

[Pause]

Now. I believe in God.

Jesus is God. Uh like I believe HE was much like you and
me. ... Science tells us we are all made of atoms which were created
from exploding stars. ... When we eat and replenish our bodies we are
eating star dust. When we drink water we drink pee from dinosaurs. How
is this not incredible! Incredibly divine?

[Pause]

Our INFINITESIMALLY tiny world was not created a few thousand years
ago. Our planet, our sun, or galaxy, our universe did have a start
date. Did it spring into being from nothing or something?

We are in a fishbowl looking outside it. Our ability to understand the
universe DOES increase at an astonishing rate in the scale of
history. But in the scale of a human life -- OUR LIVES -- we will not
explain much...


### CHAPTER, SPEED 1.0, VOICE shimmer, DELAY 1.7, FILLER 0.0, MODEL tts-1


Life is incredibly resilient and adaptive. Brains start out life by
learning input and output. Cause and effect. Brains issue impulses and
a limb, a hoof, a finger MOVES. They get sensory input. They learn and
map out a world. ... They are shaped by their environment and learn by
trial and error.

[Pause]

Amputees can NOW have computers literally wired into their
brains. Through exhausting trial and error and thinking (usually in an
unfocused way) they can manipulate devices attached to the
computers. ... Blind people can place electronic devices in their
mouth which impart a view of the world expressed as touch. These
visually blind people begin to see in a way nobody else -- no one --
can appreciate.

[Pause]

So there's that phase "Trial and error". It's the same way that
scientists have trained "machine learning" models. It's all through
that feedback of positive and negative examples. like It's been going
on for well over thirty years. It doesn't look like any of that is
going to slow down. Maybe that's kind of a good thing.


### CHAPTER, SPEED 1.0, VOICE shimmer, DELAY 1.7, FILLER 0.0, MODEL tts-1

Where are we headed as a species?

In our lifetime will our minds move to computers? leaving our bodies
behind? I believe it matters and and I believe it doesn't.

The part that matters is ego. It's the geeky Star Trek "transporter"
debate. ... In the fictional TV world of "Star Trek" there are
transporters, they scan, "dematerialize", and "materialize" your
body. Through various malfunctions and scripted debates, we know that
"dematerialize" essentially means "destroy". ... The materialized you
should have zero meaningful difference in your molecules and the state
of your every atom. But it's not you -- right?!

[Pause]

Does your matter matter? If you are the same but also you no longer
exist? You are an exact copy but your old you is destroyed. I find
that disconcerting. Is it just the continuity break? Our bodies over
time swap out most molecules for new ones. Your bones -- RIGHT NOW --
are only ten years old. Your body replaces almost all your parts over
time. Some in days and some over a longer time. ALMOST! Your neurons
-- the you uh your brain are almost never replaced over time. So
you're not that um whole ship of Theseus.

[Pause] ...

Moving your consciousness is crazy. But it's something people are
looking at. It's in movies all the time. Would you be you? Would it be
better -- super-better? Or a living hell? Living. (Hmm.) You might
never die and that could be hell.

But I do think it would be nice to explore more of the universe and
see more outside our fishbowl.


### CHAPTER, SPEED 1.0, VOICE shimmer, DELAY 1.7, FILLER 0.0, MODEL tts-1


Now I have to disclose something. You probably already know. But I
should have done it before. And it's (uh) embarrassing. ... My voice
is not my own. It's not that it's owned by someone else.

Well. Hearing it out loud -- like that -- um I guess it is more
precise to say uh that my voice IS OWNED. By someone else. Or I should
say even more precisely: my voice was created by a computer
model. [Pause] Yea the quote-unquote usage policies of this -- or
rather my -- model require me to disclose that the voice you hear -
right now - is AI-generated and not a human voice.

[Sigh] So... I'm um [Pause] sorry. [Pause]

### CHAPTER, SPEED 1.0, VOICE shimmer, DELAY 1.7, FILLER 0.0, MODEL tts-1



Where are we er you headed? What will YOU get to see? What do YOU want
to learn? [Pause] What secrets of the universe interest ... you?


### CHAPTER, SPEED 1.0, VOICE shimmer, DELAY 1.7, FILLER 0.0, MODEL tts-1

uh thank you for spending your time listening and considering. I
appreciate it and I hope you have a good day.

